A decentralised implementation of the *[beckn protocol](https://developers.becknprotocol.io/docs/introduction/introduction/)*

A truly decentralised technical application is one where individuals have control over their data and understand their power within the networks they are a part of. Decentralisation is a term used to describe the economic structure which we aim to build as compared to todays centralised economic structure which engenders Monopolisation of commodities. Decentralisation of power provides a direct sense of participation to the user in the management of the resources and capital of the network they are a part of. More details on what inspires our economic structure can be found in the [Integral Humanism](https://deendayalupadhyay.org/images/book/Booklet%20on%20IntegralHumanism.pdf?ref=quillette.com) philosophy written by Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay. This is a replacement to the current economic structures such as Capitalism, Socialism, Communism and various other philosophies which dictates the workings of our society today.

# Backend
Data management is planned to be implemented using the [Willow Protocol](https://willowprotocol.org/specs/index.html#specifications). Networks implement the Willow protocol to manage the data of the network participants. Blockchains are used similar to how users post data on social media. Data that the user wishes to be discovered by the public are stored on their identity blockchain. Similarly, networks store transaction contracts on their network blockchains. The network defines the schema and the rules participants are to follow in order to transact with their peers. 
The Blockchain is implemented using the Substrate sdk. Substrate sdk allows for custom runtime logic. There are currently two types of substrate runtimes:
1. Identity Chain: A chain run by each individual that houses their identity. It maintains identity data such as their features, their attributes, their Verifiable Credentials and other details that pertain to them. Please refer to the [Intersectional Social Data(ISD) protocol](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3375436) to have a deeper understanding of how we model an Identity within a network.
2. Network Chain: A chain that is maintained by the participants of the network. Each network is modelled around their aim or goal. Each identity enacts a certain role within the network in order to advance the networks aim or goal. The network stores smart contracts of transactions by the network participants with other peers. These contracts maintain the data of the transaction, the terms of the transaction, the fulfilment of the transaction and the corresponding feedback and rating. This information can further be used to understand whether the network is progressing towards its goals or not.

Further details on the protocol can be found in the [protocol-specs](./docs/protocol-specs) folder.

# Frontend
Frontend will mostly be dApps that individuals can download and run on their chains along with the UI written in React. Work on this will be started soon...